>> Bianca Gandolfo: We're gonna go
over the binary search exercise.
So just a reminder, we both
implemented the constructor portion,
the insert method, as well as
the contains or search method, cool?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Let's take a look.
So the constructor of the binary search
tree is pretty simple, actually.
It just has a pointer to the root node.
But with that said,
we do need another constructor
that constructs the actual nodes.
This is pretty common when you're creating
a tree, to have a separate constructor for
the node.
And then,
you insert that node into your tree, okay?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right, so
let's take a look first at the insert.
Just a reminder, when we are inserting
a value into a binary search tree,
it has to traverse through and
find an empty space where
it follows the rules where
a left child has to be less than
the parent node, and
the right child has to be greater.
So as we're traversing, there are certain
rules that we have to follow to insert.
We can't just insert it anywhere we want
like with our binary tree or our tree.
All right, so let's check this out.
So we have an insert helper here.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
we basically just initialize it.
And you'll see why we have
the helper in a second recursion.
We have a insertHelper here.
It's just going to call itself
with the value and the root.
So the node starts off with the root node.
If it's null, we'll just add the root.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We just create a new
node and we add it as a root here, cool?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Of this tree.
And remember,
each tree is made up of sub-trees.
So each sub-tree has a root and
two children, cool?
So if we are inserting
a number that is less than or
equal to the value,
actually just less than.
Well, let's see.
If it's equal to it, we
don't wanna have duplicates in
our binary search tree, okay?
So if the value is less,
the insert value is less
than the current node's value,
we wanna put it in the left tree, right?
So if it's null,
that means there's a space for it.
So then, we add it.
Great, and then,
we can return it at the end,
just so that we have reference to it and
we can do more things with it.
Sure?
>> Speaker 2: So when we are checking for
equal to, right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
I think it should just be this, yeah.
Is that what you were gonna ask?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, cool.
Otherwise, we're gonna call this
again with the node dot left.
So if it's not null, that means
there's a left child there, and so
we need to figure what that is.
So we'll go to the left node, and
then we'll pass the value as well,
the same value that we are looking for.
Or that we're inserting, I should say.
So if node dot left is null,
it's not gonna be null, right?
Because we already had that check here,
remember?
So if it was null,
we would have inserted it and returned.
So we know that it's not null.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So if the value is
less than the current node's value,
then we go into this block.
Again, we check if
>> Bianca Gandolfo: There's
nothing in its left place.
Otherwise, we call it again, etc.,etc.
And similarly,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: If it's greater than,
we enter into this else block.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
this might be better as an else if value
is greater than node dot value.
Because I don't wanna overwrite or
anything like that if
it's a duplicate value.
The specifics of your implementation is up
to you, but that's how I like to do it.
And it really matters
what you're doing it for.
So again, it's the same thing for
the right as well.
And so, as you can see, at every level,
it's gonna check left and
right until it finally inserts
itself into the right place.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Any questions?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Was this surprising?
Did you guys get this one?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's been a long day,
I understand, all right.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: But
does that make sense?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Would you say
that this is harder, easier, or
the same difficulty as
like a depth first or
a breadth first search,
for you, individually?
>> Speaker 2: A bit harder.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: A little bit harder?
>> Speaker 2: Having a helper function
that is recursive is a bit more complex.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You think?
Interesting, so I would think that
the helper function makes it easier.
>> Speaker 2: It does make it easier,
I just wouldn't have gotten it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, got it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Very cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What about you,
Michael?
>> Speaker 2: I didn't do the insert part.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.
>> Speaker 2: I kinda cheated.
I already had an array.
And then, I did the search part.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, okay, got it.
The way I like to break down these
problems is I just think about what if
this is a tree with a parent and
two children, right?
Like we did it earlier
with the binary tree.
For me, it's easier to start with that and
then build on the recursive elements.
Because maybe initially I wouldn't
have started with this helper.
I would have just started
with these if else's and
then said insert,
which is essentially the same.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: The helper just
kind of separates it a little bit.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And it can be easier
to reason about recursion when you're
calling a helper function sometimes.
I don't know, different strokes.
All right, who's ready for contains?
Did anyone try a contains?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay,
a couple people did contains.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Very nice, all right,
so we also have a helper here.
So we will call it first
with the root node.
So if the node is null,
we will return false, right?
So that's sort of like the base for
our recursion.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And first thing we're
gonna check is if the current node's value
is value, then we're gonna return true.
We're all happy.
Otherwise, if the value
is less than the current
node's value,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
the left node is not null,
then we're gonna recurse.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
we're gonna come in here
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And keep repeating.
Similarly,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We'll check the right.
And so, this is really similar
from the contains before.
Except that when we're
calling the recursion,
we're either calling the left or
the right.
Versus before,
we were calling out everything.